"Do less sunny cities have more of their sunny hours in the summer?" ("Do more sunny cities have less of their overall sunny hours?", or more colloquially, "Do sunnier cities really have no seasons?")

Oftentimes, we conceptualize the Summer as having higher temperatures, more sunny hours, and warmer weather, due to the way that the earth tilts towards the sun during the season. However, there is the concept that areas with more sun year-round, which we modeled as having higher average sunny hours per month overall, don't really undergo this kind of change--in other words, with more sun year-round, there is less seasonal change in this weather, even if it is Summertime in that area. I was curious about whether this concept is actually true, since I've often heard that perennially sunny areas don't have seasons and have the same level of sunlight throughout the year, while the meteorological facts of why the Summer season is the way it is persist. 

I therefore attempted to visualize whether sunnier areas have less proportion of their sunny hours in the Summertime. I did this by representing whether a city was more or less sunny by averaging their number of sunny hours across all of the months. I chose this transformation since I felt that this would be the easiest to understand and effectively compare values on a per-month basis, rather than using select values or a sum. To represent whether a city was sunnier in the Summertime or not, I took the 3 most sunny contiguous months for each city (based on the predominant idea that there are 4 seasons in a year), and using any most sunny contiguous months rather than pre-defined Summer months since the climate can vary wildly across the United States, thus leading to different onsets of seasons. I then took this total number of sunny hours and divided it by the , thus taking the proportion of sunny hours in the Summertime relative to the rest of the year. As these are both quantitative ratio values, I used a scatter plot and trend line that had distinct colors from each other to display points themselves on a spatial plane while also providing the viewer with some idea of if there is a real trend in the data as displayed. I thought linear axes made the most sense and also were easy for any viewer to understand, and also decided to cut off parts of the axes so as to focus only on the areas that had data, which removed a lot of empty space where no points existed.

With the 6 city data points given, I categorized the cities, a nominal data type, further into general geographic regions (West, Central, & East), yet another nominal data type. I added additional number of sunny hours data using data from the US Climate Data website as developed by the National Weather Service, and attempted to balance the representation of each geographic region for a total of 21 cities, 7 for each region. This was to get as accurate of a representation as I could. I considered color- or shape-labeling the points on the visualization by their region, which might have been interesting to see, but ultimately decided against it in order to keep the visualization as clear and effective as possible, since the region data type wasn't essential to the question being answered. I considered categorizing points further based on their location using the given latitude and longitude data as well, but decided against it to keep the details less confusing and visualization more effective, with a more clear focus on the overall trend.

Looking at the overall trend line, there appears to be a negative trend, where more sunny hours means less overall proportion of sunny hours in the Summertime, thus supporting the idea that more sunny areas don't have as much seasonal change in terms of weather in the Summertime.

However, I thought that this was a pretty limited conclusion due to the fact that there wasn't a perfect spread of cities--many cities lacked average sunny hours data--and therefore was a relatively biased selection. I also chose to represent this idea of seasonal change only using one of the seasons, which was Summertime--one could also reasonably use other seasons and define them respectively, or even compare them with each other. The use of sun itself as an indicator for seasonal change might also be misguided-- other factors such as pressure, humidity, or precipitation might have helped to paint a clearer picture. In addition, the geographic regions were generally self-defined, so the data I added that I thought would make the dataset "representative" was definitely personally biased. 
