Name: Michael Huang
UW netid: mhuang19

In a way, both visualizations aim to answer the question of whether food security has changed over time. I chose to answer this question using statistics around agricultural and arable land, both forms of land that help paint a picture around regional and country-based food production. First, to illuminate the distinction a little bit more, according to the OECD, Agricultural land contains land that is either arable, under permanent crops, or under permanent pastures--this is both land that has the potential to be used for food production (i.e. arable) and is also being currently used for longer-term food production (note that the land currently in use need not have been arable). Arable land is then defined as land that is suitable for agricultural activities for temporary crops, temporary meadows, or other temporary uses. Something to note according to the World Bank, however, is that this is often less indicative of an accurative level of food security due to the lack of clarity about whether arable land is actually accessible or feasibly able to be transformed into food-producing land due to a certain country or regions' means.

For the deceptive visualization, I made a variety of poor decisions, starting with using the less accurate arable data to answer the question. I used both country as well as regional data (which aggregates data from divisions like Central Europe, East Asia, Middle East), which is an issue because such a data transformation is redundant and is more muddled with the repeated data in regions, which can often overlap multiple times. I also plotted arable land data in the form of percentage of arable land in a country or region. This in itself is not very useful, since the land proportions between countries and regions obviously vary. In addition, I placed a trend line which made the trend more obvious in the graphed line that represents the data, but this trend is not very useful if you look at the actual data distribution itself. The trend line also is relatively strong in the negative direction, which leads the viewer to think that food security is decreasing over time, but the y-axis is actually flipped so that lower is higher, thus further deceiving the viewer; the y-axis is also shrunk to only a specific band of values and doesn't include the 0 value in order to exaggerate the supposed trend. The y-axis is also somewhat vague, where it describes arable land in relation to total land, which is another way of describing the actual measure, which is percentage of arable land, which is both not useful, but also useless in the way that it is transformed, as a sum. In addition, with the physically lower values being higher in terms of more arable land, the color scheme moves towards red, which is also indicative of lower values or negativity, which is also inaccurate. Finally, the year values were also cherry-picked to support the trend, and the title also asks a yes-no question with bias towards decreasing, since it is mentioned in the title ("Has Food Security Worldwide Decreased Over Time?"). A spike in the late 1980s can also be attributed to missing data that is suddenly factored in when they are available, which makes the overall visualization deceptive as well.

For the earnest visualization, I used agricultural to best paint a picture about food security. The question is also open rather than closed and doesn't imply any certain trend at all ("How Has Food Security Around the World Changed Over Time?"). I filtered out regional data and countries with null values so as to only depict accurate trends and data more consistently across the entire time period. I used the gradient for the line appropriately in how most Western vieweres would view the trends (greener is higher and redder is lower), and bigger gaps between year labels on the x-axis due to how dense the data would appear if every year was plotted and labeled. In addition, I chose to use median kilometers of agricultural land as a metric since it accounts for the heavily skewed distribution of the land sizes of countries in the world, rather than using the mean that is usually better for normally distributed data. The years from which data is selected are uniformly distributed and don't skip any years. The data is plotted as an appropriate line graph since it is a time series where we are investigating whether there is a trend or not, using an independent quantitative interval variable of time and dependent quantitative ratio variable measure of area. The y-axis of the kilometers of agricultural land is also consistently linear and includes the 0 point on the axis, so as to not mislead the viewer. 

Sources Used: World Bank, OECD